# **Assignment for Project Assistant in bioinformatics 2025**
## Name: Manuel A. Rujano B.
## Date: 02/21/2025

### 1. How many samples does the test data set include?
The test dataset includes 1 sample.

### 2. Which version of bclconvert was used to perform the demultiplexing?
 
In my run, the bclconvert version was **4.3.6**.

The bclconvert version used is reported in the `nf_core_pipeline_software_mqc_versions.yml` file generated by the pipeline. 

### 3. What was the exact bclconvert command used?

The bclconvert command is dynamically built within a Nextflow process block as follows:

```bash
bcl-convert \
    $args \
    --output-directory output \
    --bcl-input-directory ${input_dir} \
    --sample-sheet ${samplesheet}
```
The command is located at:
`/.nextflow/assets/nf-core/demultiplex/modules/nf-core/bclconvert/main.nf`

### 4. How would you configure the pipeline to trim the fastqs?  
Fastp is integrated by default in the demultiplex pipeline to perform adapter trimming and quality filtering. To enable or customize trimming, the user can supply adapter sequences through the Illumina samplesheets and include the `--remove_adapters` flag in the command line. (refer to [nf-core/demultiplex](https://nf-co.re/demultiplex/1.5.4/docs/usage/)).  

### 5. How would you configure the pipeline so that MultiQC is run with --exclude fastp? (This excludes the fastp section from the MultiQC report.) 

First, you can customize a MultiQC configuration file to exclude the fastp module from the MultiQC report (see [MultiQC docs](https://docs.seqera.io/multiqc/reports/customisation#removing-modules-or-sections)).  

I created a file named `multiqc_config.yml` adding the following content:  

```yaml
exclude_modules:
  - "fastp"
```

And then the parameter `--multiqc_config` should be included specifying the path to the custom MultiQC configuration file, and run the pipeline as follows:

```bash
nextflow run nf-core/demultiplex \
    -profile test,docker -revision 1.5.4 \
    --multiqc_config </path/to/multiqc_custom.yml> \
    --outdir results  
```
Alternatively, you could modify the default `multiqc_config.yml` directly in the Nextflow assets directory and run the pipeline without using the `--multiqc_config` parameter:

`/.nextflow/assets/nf-core/demultiplex/assets`

### 6. References

#### nf-core/demultiplex Documentation:
([https://nf-co.re/demultiplex](https://nf-co.re/demultiplex/1.5.4)
#### MultiQC Documentation:
([https://multiqc.info/docs](https://docs.seqera.io/multiqc/reports/customisation#removing-modules-or-sections))
